---
layout: post
title: Book Notes - This is Day One
permalink: /book-review-this-is-day-one/
author: Todd Lichty
---
<p>I purchased this book on a whim from Costco. I had never heard of Drew Dudley before, but the summary looked interesting so I thought I would give the book a read. </p><p>The book was well written and a very easy read. I finished it in a couple of nights. The basic premise of the book is that EVERYONE can and should be a leader every day of their lives. Anyone can lift up someone else by their mood, courage, confidence etc. Everyone needs to be a leader in their own development.</p><p>Passages I highlighted in the book:</p><p>"Day Ones provide a sense of renewal, commitment and forgiveness."</p><p>"Living Day One leadership means embracing the same philosophy: if you want to be a leader, choose to be a leader today."</p><p>"Your commitment should be to act as a leader for a single day: Day One. Then treat every day as if it's Day One..."</p><p>"Simple, consistent, impactful behaviors are what generate the momentum needed to accomplish the most significant things in our lives" </p><p>"Every time we use the word "just" to describe who we are or what we're doing, we're telling people that we are unimportant. Every time we say we're "just" something, we're giving people permission to expect less from us"</p><p>"Courage takes practice and embedding it into your life daily provides you with evidence you can face ever larger challenges."</p><p>"It is courage that defines leaders, not confidence"</p><p>"Am I capable of five seconds of courage right now?"</p><p>"How far would you be willing to go for the chance to be happier?"</p><p>"..you must accept that money and jobs make lousy life goals because you're not in charge of either one."</p><p>"...adding value means trying to find a way to give someone something they didn't know they needed..."</p>