---
layout: post
title: Atomic Habits - Book Notes
permalink: /atomic-habits-book-notes/
author: Todd Lichty
---
<p>I finished reading another great book on habits called <em><a href="https://www.amazon.ca/Atomic-Habits-Proven-Build-Break/dp/0735211299/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1545401026&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=atomic+habits">Atomic Habits</a></em> written by James Clear. The book was a quick and easy read. Having already read <a href="https://blog.toddlichty.com/the-power-of-habit-why-we-do-what-we-do-in-life-and-business/">Power of Habit</a>, this book was a great refresher and added some more information regarding habits and how to change them.</p><p>The book is broken down into the four sections. Each section discusses one of the four laws of behaviour change:</p><p>The 1st law (Cue): Make it obvious.</p><p>The 2nd law (Craving): Make it attractive.</p><p>The 3rd law (Response): Make it easy.</p><p>The 4th law (Reward): Make it satisfying.</p><p>Below are the notes I took while reading the book:<br></p><ul><li>Habits are the compound interest of self-improvement. Getting 1 percent better every day counts for a lot in the long-run.</li><li>Small changes often appear to make no difference until you cross a critical threshold. The most powerful outcomes of any compounding process are delayed. You need to be patient.</li><li>If you want better results, then forget about setting goals. Focus on your system instead.</li><li>There are three levels of change: outcome change, process change, and identity change.</li><li>The most effective way to change your habits is to focus not on what you want to achieve, but on who you wish to become.</li><li>Your identity emerges out of your habits. Every action is a vote for the type of person you wish to become.</li><li>A habit is a behavior that has been repeated enough times to become automatic.</li><li>The ultimate purpose of habits is to solve the problems of life with as little energy and effort as possible.</li><li>Any habit can be broken down into a feedback loop that involves four steps: cue, craving, response, and reward.</li><li>With enough practice, your brain will pick up on the cues that predict certain outcomes without consciously thinking about it.</li><li>Once our habits become automatic, we stop paying attention to what we are doing.</li><li>The process of behavior change always starts with awareness. You need to be aware of your habits before you can change them.</li><li>The two most common cues are time and location.</li><li>Creating an implementation intention is a strategy you can use to pair a new habit with a specific time and location.</li><li>Habit stacking is a strategy you can use to pair a new habit with a current habit.</li><li>Small changes in context can lead to large changes in behavior over time.</li><li>Make the cues of good habits obvious in your environment.</li><li>It is easier to build new habits in a new environment because you are not fighting against old cues.</li><li>The inversion of the 1st Law of Behavior Change is make it invisible.</li><li>People with high self-control tend to spend less time in tempting situations. It’s easier to avoid temptation than resist it.</li><li>One of the most practical ways to eliminate a bad habit is to reduce exposure to the cue that causes it.</li><li>Self-control is a short-term strategy, not a long-term one.</li><li>The more attractive an opportunity is, the more likely it is to become habit-forming.</li><li>It is the anticipation of a reward—not the fulfillment of it—that gets us to take action. The greater the anticipation, the greater the dopamine spike.</li><li>Temptation bundling is one way to make your habits more attractive. The strategy is to pair an action you want to do with an action you need to do.</li><li>The culture we live in determines which behaviors are attractive to us.</li><li>We tend to adopt habits that are praised and approved of by our culture because we have a strong desire to fit in and belong to the tribe.</li><li>We tend to imitate the habits of three social groups: the close (family and friends), the many (the tribe), and the powerful (those with status and prestige).</li><li>The normal behavior of the tribe often overpowers the desired behavior of the individual. Most days, we’d rather be wrong with the crowd than be right by ourselves.</li><li>If a behavior can get us approval, respect, and praise, we find it attractive.</li><li>The inversion of the 2nd Law of Behavior Change is make it unattractive.</li><li>The cause of your habits is actually the prediction that precedes them. The prediction leads to a feeling.</li><li>Highlight the benefits of avoiding a bad habit to make it seem unattractive.</li><li>Habit formation is the process by which a behavior becomes progressively more automatic through repetition.</li><li>The amount of time you have been performing a habit is not as important as the number of times you have performed it.</li><li>Human behavior follows the Law of Least Effort. We will naturally gravitate toward the option that requires the least amount of work.</li><li>Create an environment where doing the right thing is as easy as possible.</li><li>Reduce the friction associated with good behaviors. When friction is low, habits are easy.</li><li>Increase the friction associated with bad behaviors. When friction is high, habits are difficult.</li><li>Habits can be completed in a few seconds but continue to impact your behavior for minutes or hours afterward.</li><li>The Two-Minute Rule states, “When you start a new habit, it should take less than two minutes to do.”</li><li>The more you ritualize the beginning of a process, the more likely it becomes that you can slip into the state of deep focus that is required to do great things.</li><li>The inversion of the 3rd Law of Behavior Change is make it difficult.</li><li>The ultimate way to lock in future behavior is to automate your habits.</li><li>Onetime choices—like buying a better mattress or enrolling in an automatic savings plan—are single actions that automate your future habits and deliver increasing returns over time.</li><li>We are more likely to repeat a behavior when the experience is satisfying.</li><li>The human brain evolved to prioritize immediate rewards over delayed rewards.</li><li>The Cardinal Rule of Behavior Change: What is immediately rewarded is repeated. What is immediately punished is avoided.</li><li>To get a habit to stick you need to feel immediately successful—even if it’s in a small way.</li><li>The first three laws of behavior change—make it obvious, make it attractive, and make it easy—increase the odds that a behavior will be performed this time. The fourth law of behavior change—make it satisfying—increases the odds that a behavior will be repeated next time.</li><li>One of the most satisfying feelings is the feeling of making progress.</li><li>Don’t break the chain. Try to keep your habit streak alive.</li><li>Never miss twice. If you miss one day, try to get back on track as quickly as possible.</li><li>The inversion of the 4th Law of Behavior Change is make it unsatisfying.</li><li>We are less likely to repeat a bad habit if it is painful or unsatisfying.</li><li>The Goldilocks Rule states that humans experience peak motivation when working on tasks that are right on the edge of their current abilities.</li><li>The greatest threat to success is not failure but boredom.</li><li>As habits become routine, they become less interesting and less satisfying. We get bored.</li><li>Anyone can work hard when they feel motivated. It’s the ability to keep going when work isn’t exciting that makes the difference.</li><li>Professionals stick to the schedule; amateurs let life get in the way.</li><li>The upside of habits is that we can do things without thinking. The downside is that we stop paying attention to little errors.</li><li><strong>Habits + Deliberate Practice = Mastery</strong><br><br></li></ul>